PEP: 220401
Title: Back to the Past
Author: Temporally Ambiguous
Status: April Fool!
Type: Standards Track
Content-Type: text/x-rst
Created: 01-Apr-2022


Abstract
========

Dating back to February of 2001, python has had the capacity to import 
from the ``__future__``. Today we are announcing that the 
``to __past__ export past_statement`` companion syntax is now complete, 
allowing us to send the present and future syntax and semantic back to 
past programs. 


Motivation
==========

There is no free lunch, and for every 
``from **__future__** import future_statement``, there must be a 
corresponding execution to export syntax or semantics back into the past.


Intent
======

To allow the adoption of future syntax and semantics which are for a 
time incompatible with the current python version, it is possible to 
import them using a future_statement. Consequentially, there must be 
another program executed at an undetermined time in the future which 
removes that future_statement from the program, allowing the past 
program to import and use the future_statement. 

When a future_statement was needed some time in the past, a 
past_statement will be used to remove the syntax or semantics from 
code it is executing within.


Implementation
==============

the ``__past__`` and ``__future__`` syntax communicate in a transmitter-receiver
design which does necessitate some hardware, as outlined below.

Hardware
--------

Using the delta configuration of Emmett Brown’s technology we can transmit 
to the classical Wye configuration using a temporally focused delta-wye 
transformer. This is similar in principle to the turboencabulator, but 
here we must omit the lunar wave shaft for better signal integrity. The 
omission does come at the cost of the malleability in the logarithmic 
casing, but by offsetting the two halves of the transformer both 
temporally and physically, we maintain it’s logarithmic design, albeit 
significantly more rigid.

Python core maintainers have preserved the wye configuration receiver 
which allows for the ``__future__`` syntax to function in the codebase.

Communication Protocol
----------------------

Reverse temporally focused bits, “Ni’s”, are structured into packets and 
transmitted to the wye receiver. To ensure successful packet negotiation, 
the communication protocol is 1001 tense formation compliant through 
“Future Semiconditionally Modified Subinverted Plagal Past Subjunctive 
Intentional”. While this does fall short of the full 1001 tense formation, 
the grammar is thorough enough to ensure reliable transmission assuming 
the delta transmitter is properly configured.

In the event that it is accidentally configured as a Nutrimatic Drink 
Dispenser, it will throw an error code almost, but not quite, entirely 
unlike 418. This raises a ``NutrimaticTeaError`` which is blocking on infinite 
improbability drive architectures.

The Wye receiver decodes and retransmits the packet to the corresponding 
``from __future__  import future_statement`` call.


Syntax 
======

A past_statement is simply a to/export statement using the reserved 
module name ``__past__``::

    past_statement: "to" "__past__" "export" feature ["as" name]
                    (","feature ["as" name])*

    feature: identifier
    name: identifier

In addition, all past_statements must appear at the top of the module. 
The only lines that can appear before a past_statement are:

+ the module docstring (if any).
+ Comments.
+ Blank lines.
+ Other past_statements
+ Any future_statements (this is discouraged)

Example::

    """This is a module docstring"""

    # This is a comment, preceded by a blank line and followed by
    # a past_statement

    to __past__ export print

    from math import sin
    to __past__ export winning_philosophy_football_teams
    # Compile-time error!
    # That was an error because we cannot export profitable 
    # knowledge back to the past

Semantics 
=========

A past_statement is recognized and treated specially at compile time: 
changes to the semantics of the core constructs are often implemented 
by generating different code with the past_statement removed. 

The direct runtime semantics are the reverse of any ``import`` statement: 
after the past_statement is invoked, it is treated as if there is no 
standard module containing it. Any further invocation to the 
past_statement will raise a SyntaxError.


Example
=======

Consider this code::

    x = 42
    print("x is", x)

In recent versions of python, it prints ``42`` successfully. However if 
this is run using python 2.6, you’d need to run::

    from __future__ import print_function
    x = 42
    print("x is", x)

Before the print As a Function can be executed. 

To sustain this usage, there must be a companion export::

    to __past__ export print_function
    x = 42

If the print function is called after it has been executed, the program will 
raise a NameError::

    to __past__ export print_function
    x = 42
    print(x)

    NameError: name 'print' is not defined


Questions and Answers
=====================

Why is it not advised to use a future_statement above past_statements?
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Combining a future_statement and a past_statement in the same program, 
or daisy-chaining, may allow for fixed, fine grained tracking of the temporal 
path an exported statement takes, however it introduces a Time Traveler in 
the Middle attack. While it is not explicitly disallowed, we do not advise 
daisy-chaining into the past even for testing purposes.

Doesn’t this violate the Conservation of Information?
-----------------------------------------------------

It turns out, conserving information is not actually a constraining function 
on our universe as most information is not all that informative. This inequality, 
when taking to it’s limit roughly means 1=0. 

On this imbalance, it’s possible to export functions into the past violating 
the conservation of information so long as the exported function is really all 
that informative, even if it’s used in an informative fashion.

Why can’t I export the Winning Team for the Philosophers Football match last weekend to my past program?
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

While the universe doesn’t actually obey conservation of information, it obeys 
the conservation of informative information. So long as the informativeness of 
the information approaches an inequality of 1=0, exporting into the past is 
possible. 

Unfortunately winners of football matches mathematically qualify as informative 
information and therefore cannot be handled using the 
``to __past__ export past_statement``  syntax.


Copyright
=========

This document has been placed in the public domain.


..
   Local Variables:
   mode: indented-text
   indent-tabs-mode: nil
   sentence-end-double-space: t
   fill-column: 70
   coding: utf-8
   End: